---
layout: post
title: Hello.
tags:
- about me
- artificial intelligence
- computer science
- food
- Information
- introduction
- japanese
- mathematics
- music
- photo
- physics
- programming
status: publish
type: post
published: true
---
Just a short introduction.

I'm a third year Computer Science student at Birmingham University taking a study year to study Japanese at Keio university in Tokyo. I started learning Japanese on a whim two years ago after I discovered that Birmingham offered a beginners' course in Japanese. Something clicked, and for the past two years I have been enjoying messing around learning about Japanese language, culture and, what is possibly my favourite bit, food.

At the end of the first year, I moved up into the intermediate level class, entailing 40 (out of 120) credits in the second year as opposed to the 20 that I was taking in the first year. In addition, I switched from my original course, Artificial Intelligence and Computer Science, to Computer Science with Study Abroad. It is a little regrettable, since the course title of the former sounds significantly cooler, and my real interests lie in those areas of Computer Science.

My main interests in Computer Science are machine learning and robotics, although I've not taken any modules on the subject, mainly because those credits were taken up by my Japanese study. Apart from Computer Science, my interests lie in physics and mathematics, although only really in the sense of "Hey, this stuff is really cool" at the moment. My goal for a final year project is to integrate some of my interest in astrophysics with machine learning, which will mean that I can finally have an excuse to study mathematics and physics properly.

Going away from academic-type interests, I like taking photographs, listening to music and programming. This means that a lot of the posts here will, if I can actually be bothered to post anything, involve some of these things. I intend to document my stay in Japan with a lot of photographs, and since I don't really enjoy writing things, this may gravitate to a photography blog with minimal text input.

You can find me at these places on the internet:
- [Github](https://github.com/heuristicus)
- [last.fm](www.last.fm/user/Nitre)
- [Flickr](http://www.flickr.com/photos/mstaniaszek/)
- [Twitter](https://twitter.com/#!/MStaniaszek)
