---
layout: post
title: It's Been a While...
tags:
- japan
- essay
status: publish
type: post
published: true
---
...and nothing much has happened. What follows is a report that I wrote in order to fulfil a requirement of my scholarship. It's pretty rough, as I didn't bother reading through after I'd written it. Since the limit was a page, I couldn't really go into depth on anything, but since I wrote it I thought I may as well put it up here as I haven't written anything for a while.

In this short report, I intend to detail a few of my experiences in Japan, and also to discuss my what I think of the country after spending more or less half a year studying at Keio University. With another 4 months left here it is possible that I will discover that my opinions on some things that I discuss here change. However, I write this with reasonable confidence that the assumptions I make are not entirely unfounded.

I had been told that the Japanese summer is hot, but was not particularly concerned, since heat can be easily tolerated by sitting in the shade somewhere. Or so I thought. The first thing that surprised me a little as I arrived in Japan at the beginnning of September was the humidity. There was nowhere I could hide from its ever-present sweat-inducing heat. Given that I had arrived only a few months after the Touhoku earthquake, a lot of Tokyo was in power-saving mode, and so even if there was air conditioning, it was not being used. While enduring the humidity, I travelled into the centre of Tokyo, taking a train through rural Chiba prefecture. The difference between the start and end point of the journey was quite striking-- mostly open fields in Chiba, gradually transforming into the high-rise concrete jungle of Tokyo. I have grown used to advertisements, having lived in London for most of my life, but the scale in Tokyo was on a completely different level. It seemed as thought almost any space that could be seen from the train had some billboard advertising some product or other, or if not, the name of the company which owned the building.

Having been conditioned to Japan through anime, friends and my occasional viewing of Japanese TV programmes, as well as looking at a lot of photographs, I was not overwhelmed by anything in particular, and have not at this point experienced anything which I feel can be said to be culture shock. If anything, I have grown to like Tokyo, with its extensive train network and the ease of access to any product that you may be looking for. I would have liked to take advantage of this, but at the time of writing, economic climate means that the yen is almost prohibitively expensive. Not one to give up, I quickly discovered that Japanese second-hand shops are fantastic places to find things. In the UK there are many second hand shops, but the quality of the products is often far below that of anything that you could buy new. In contrast, the vast majority of used products in Japan seem to be in extremely good shape. A second hand bicycle I bought was to me indistinguishable from a new one. Second hand books and manga are in the majority of cases in very good condition (and very cheap, to boot). The are also many second hand clothes shops, and given the Japanese interest obsession with fashion, you will not be hard pressed to find a set of stylish clothing for a relatively small price.

The most obvious difference that I have seen so far is the method of teaching that seems to be very common here. In the UK, and from what I have heard, the US as well, students are taught to think for themselves and come up with their own explanations of whatever they are being taught, if it is possible to do so. In my experience, this generally works well, although of course it depends a lot on both the student and the teacher. I accept that there are many problems with the education system of the UK, but the teaching methods in Japan are, to me, rather odd. It seems as though the basis for most learning is memorisation. This is not surprising, since the Japanese writing system essentially requires the memorisation of two thousand or so characters. However, for me, this does not mean that rote memorisation should be used to learn other things as well. I was lucky enough to not have had to do much of it because of the class that I was put into, but friends have told me that much of their lessons and homework consisted of rote memorisation of long passages of text. We discussed this in our class for a while, and were assured that the students in classes using mostly memorisation progress just as much as those who focus on other methods, but I am somewhat doubtful of the validity of this statement, at least for myself personally. I find that once the exam or whatever other thing I have memorised something for is over, I forget everything extremely quickly. In my opinion, understanding of something is gained at a relatively slow pace, purely through exposure to the same general concept in many different contexts. This is probably why native speakers are so good at speaking their language--they have had a lot of time to learn the nuances of words, phrases and so on, and when they can be used.

This year so far has been a very interesting one. Meeting people whose interests and field of study are completely different from mine, being immersed in a foreign culture, studying a language full-time, finding a part-time job in a country whose language I have yet to master, and having the opportunity to think about questions that I would probably not have considered of much importance if I had been asked only a few months ago.
