---
layout: post
title: Welcome
tags: code latex
---

Welcome to my new website. I kept telling myself that I needed to make myself a
one, but never managed to get round to it. Until now. Having finished exams I
decided that either I'd do it now, or it would have to wait another two years at
least.

With that, let's go into some more detail on exactly what I've done. The site is
generated using a very nice static site generator,
[Jekyll](http://jekyllrb.com), which was recommended to me quite a while ago by
[Jeremiah Via](http://jeremiahvia.com). Jekyll transforms plain text files
(mostly HTML and [markdown](http://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/)) into
a mess of HTML which hopefully looks just as you wanted it to. Messing around
with HTML and CSS hasn't been particularly fun. Having not used either since
secondary school, it's taken me a while to work out how to control the things
that I want to control. Some things are still confusing, but hopefully once I
get things right once the next time I need to do something similar I'll know
basically what to do.

Since you're reading this, you can see another thing that Jekyll does---it
creates pages for blog posts from either markdown or HTML files. Being one of
those people who uses [Emacs](http://www.gnu.org/software/emacs/) for
everything, this is a Good Thing. I can write posts directly into Emacs without
having to access some web interface, which means that I can use all the packages
I've collected in the past three years. Jekyll uses the
[Liquid](http://liquidmarkup.org/) library, which frees you from having to write
HTML for every post on the site. Just work out the structure you want to have
each post follow, throw it into a for loop over all the posts on your
site, and you're done. Here's the code which generates the [blog](/blog).

{% highlight html %}
{% raw %}

    <section class="content">
      <div id="posts">
    
        {% for post in site.posts offset: 0 limit: 5 %}
        <div class="fullpost">
          <h2><a href="{{ post.url }}">{{ post.title }}</a></h2>
          {{ post.date | date: "%b %d, %Y" }}
    
          <section class="postcontent">
    	    {{ post.content }}
          </section>
          
          <section class="posttags">
    	    Filed under {{ post.tags | array_to_sentence_string }}.
          </section>
        </div>
        <div class="breaker"></div>
        {% endfor %}
      </div>
   </section>

{% endraw %}
{% endhighlight %}

Ignoring my terrible HTML, it's rather neat.

You may have noticed the pretty code highlighting in the snippet above. This is
done with the [Pygments](http://pygments.org/) syntax highlighter, which Jekyll
can be set up to run whenever the site is built. It converts code in special
Liquid tags into a mass of HTML elements, which are then coloured with CSS
generated from one of the themes which comes with Pygments.

Here's some code.

{% highlight bash %}

   start=900;
   end=2000;
   base=900; # at zoom:1
   step=1;
   # Create a sequence of sizes to loop over
   sizes=`eval echo {$start..$end..$step}`
   for width in ${sizes}; do
       result=`echo "scale=10;$width/$base" | bc`
       echo "@media screen and (min-width: "$width"px) { body { zoom: $result; } }"
   done

{% endhighlight %}

`$$P(Y_k=x)=\frac{\lambda^xe^{-\lambda}}{x!}$$`

`\[\mathbf{V}_1 \times \mathbf{V}_2 =  \begin{vmatrix}
\mathbf{i} & \mathbf{j} & \mathbf{k} \\
\frac{\partial X}{\partial u} &  \frac{\partial Y}{\partial u} & 0 \\
\frac{\partial X}{\partial v} &  \frac{\partial Y}{\partial v} & 0
\end{vmatrix}\]`
